spoilers first. The Millennium Falcon is back, although one character dismisses it as “garbage,” and you still don’t need an ignition key to start it. The Death Star has been replaced by what appears to be its elder brother, and at one point we see the two of them, rendered as holograms, side by side. Great balls of firepower! And the biggest news of all: Chewbacca has had his highlights done, just for the occasion. There’s definitely a new and strokeable touch of golden-blond about him. And why? Because he’s worth it. “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” is, as the title suggests, aimed squarely at anyone who was worried that the Force was asleep on the job. Not that you can blame it for dozing off. One virtue of the new film is that it encourages viewers to ask afresh: What is the Force, exactly? I always assumed it was something that George Lucas dreamed up after too many Tolkien-themed parties at U.S.C. Like the One Ring, the Force can be wielded for both good and evil ends, but then so can a set of screwdrivers. We learn, from this latest installment, that the Force moves through all living things, which sounds lovely, if a trifle nebulous, yet the uses to which people put it, in the course of the narrative, seem highly specialized and precise. For instance, if you find yourself shackled to a torture rack in the stronghold of your enemy, you can brainwash your guard into releasing your fetters and leaving the door open. Very handy. Better yet, if the hilt of your light sabre is partially buried in snow and you can’t reach it, the Force—manifesting itself as a superior wobble—can pull the weapon out for you, like a splinter from your thumb. Needless to say, that simple motion will incite seat-dampening delirium among fans of the franchise, who will need no reminding that Luke Skywalker performed the same trick near the start of “The Empire Strikes Back,” when he found himself dangling upside-down in an ice cave, with his sabre stuck beyond his grasp and a shaggy white carnivore preparing to treat him as Carpaccio of Jedi. The new film is studded with details of that sort, as if the primary duty of the director, J. J. Abrams, were to reassure devotees that all is well, and that, whatever his frenzy of innovation, much remains the same in their favorite galaxy. It is decreed, say, that when two major characters, who have prowled around each other at a distance, finally meet for a showdown, it should take place on a thin spindle of bridge, above a gulping abyss. Anything less grand will not suffice. If you really think that a hero, under “Star Wars” rules, is permitted to sit down and confront his nemesis over a cup of coffee, as Al Pacino did with Robert De Niro in “Heat,” you’re in the wrong game. The plot of “The Force Awakens” is itself an exercise in loyalty. Start with an eager but thwarted youngster, toiling away in the sands of an unregarded planet? Check. End, pretty much, with an eager and unthwarted pilot, zooming down the narrow canyon of a spaceship, with his wingmen taking hits on his behalf and a tiny yet crucial target in his sights? Check. In short, we are back where it all began, clinging to the form of “Star Wars” (1977)—or, as it was later rebaptized, “A New Hope.” What’s going on here? Is Abrams a chronic nostalgist, bowing so low to the fan base that his nose is rubbing against the floor? Or has he wisely concluded that, if it ain’t broke, he should not be fool enough to fix it? All of the above, and more. “The Force Awakens” is many things: a reboot, a tribute, a valeting service, and, above all, a wrestling match, so adroitly wrought that lovers of the original may not even notice the skill with which Abrams pins down the object of their love and, where necessary, puts it out of action. I hate to say it, but he’s a critic—as all creators, and especially re-creators, must necessarily be. And he’s ruthless. Airtime, on his watch, is not index-linked to the graying memories of baby boomers but doled out in line with dramatic appeal; the more vexing you were back in 1977, the less welcome you are now. Those of us who were resolutely uncharmed by R2-D2 and C-3PO, for instance, regarding them as just another of those squabbling couples whom you can’t help hearing through the bedroom wall, will be pleased to learn that their presence in “The Force Awakens” is strictly cameo-sized. Also, what is the first thing we read as the opening titles snail their way up the screen? “Luke Skywalker has vanished.” Good. Chipper yet irritating, like a pet squirrel, he was always the most insubstantial figure in the saga, played by the most callow of the actors. So he has to go. Yet Luke still has one destiny to fulfill: he must become an invisible hinge of the story. Everyone in “The Force Awakens” is trying to get hold of BB-8, a small rolling droid who appears to have wandered in from a Pixar short and who, unlike R2-D2, is physically able to descend a flight of stairs. (Ascent is another matter; no wonder we don’t witness the attempt.) Lodged inside BB-8, on a sort of memory stick, is a segment of galactic map, which, when added to the rest of the jigsaw, will show—either to reverential followers, or to vengeful foes—where Skywalker is. Whether and why he’s worth tracking down is never asked; the quest is what counts. If you had told King Arthur that the Holy Grail was, in fact, a $6.95 highball glass from Crate & Barrel, do you think he would have dismounted from his steed and stayed behind to play gin rummy on the Round Table? He would not